You will now be able to create a matrix to
present all the words in your vocabulary.
Each vector of your matrix will
correspond to one of the words.
Let me show you how you
can build this matrix.
>> The simplest way to represent
words as numbers is for
a given vocabulary to assign
a unique integer to each word.
For example, based on a vocabulary
of 1000 basic english words,
you could assign the number
1 to the word A,
2 to able and so on up to 1000 for zebra.
While this numbering scheme is simple,
one of the problems is that
the order of the words alphabetical
in this example doesn't make much
sense from a semantic perspective.
For example, there is no reason why
happy should be assigned a greater
number than hand for instance or
a smaller one than zebra.
Instead of using a numerical
index to encode each word.
You can represent the words
using a column vector where
each element corresponds to
a word of the vocabulary.
Using the previous example with
a vocabulary of 1000 words.
Each vector would contain
1000 elements and
each row would be labeled
with one of the words.
You can now encode each word with a unique
column vector by putting A 1 in the row
that has the same label,
and a zero everywhere else.
For example, the word happy would
be represented as a vector with A 1
in the row corresponding to happy,
and 0 in all of the other rows and
for all the other words in the vocabulary.
I'll call these vectors one
hot vectors to distinguish
them from other types of
vectors that you'll encounter.
You can consider words as
a categorical variable.
You can easily go from integers
to one hot vectors and
backed by simply mapping the words in the
rows to their corresponding row number.
In this way, happy word number
621 would be represented as A 1
hot vector with A 1 in row 621 which
corresponds to the word happy.
Conversely, the vector for
happy with A 1 in row 621 would
be represented by integer 621
which corresponds to happy.
One hot vectors have
an advantage over using integers
because one hot vectors do not imply
any relationship between any two words.
Each vector says the word is
either happy or it's not,
or the word is either zebra or it's not.
However, one hot vectors have two major
limitations for most NLP use cases.
For one, barring anything but
the simplest vocabulary,
the vectors are going to be huge.
This means that working with one hot
vectors on a computer would require a lot
of space and processing time.
If your vectors are created
with english words,
you could end up with
upwards of a million rows.
One row for
each word in the english vocabulary.
Another limitation is that this
representation doesn't carry the word's
meaning.
For instance, if you attempt to determine
how similar two words are by calculating
the distance between
their one hot vectors,
then you will always get the same
distance between any two pairs of words.
For example, using one hot vectors,
the word happy is just as similar to the
word paper as it is to the word excited.
Intuitively, you would think that happy
is more similar to excited than it
is to paper.
This is where word embeddings come
into play as I'll explain next.
>> To recap,
you saw the pros of one hot vectors,
which are pretty simple and
require no implied ordering.
You also saw the cons of one hot vectors,
which are huge and encode no meaning.
In the next video,
I will show you word embeddings,
which will help us solve these issues.